
We strive against the push of mediocrity by cultivating our innate drive to self-actualization. This is the fundamental drive towards our own excellence; like Shakespeare being a great writer, Beethoven being a great composer, et cetera. The fundamental drive for Shakespeare to write and become a writer is something akin to the idea of ‘will to power.’ Under the tyranny of traditional morality – such individual excellence may not have a creative expression. In sum: suffering → builds character → excellence → self-actualized individuals.

The will to power as Nietzsche conceives of it is neither good nor bad. It is a basic drive found in everyone, but one that expresses itself in many different ways. The philosopher and the scientist direct their will to power into a will to truth. Artists channel it into a will to create. Businessmen satisfy it through becoming rich.

So while the will to power in itself is neither good nor bad, Nietzsche very clearly prefers some ways in which it expresses itself to others. He doesn’t advocate the pursuit of power. Rather, he praises the _sublimation_ of the will to power into creative activity. Roughly speaking, he praises those expressions of it he views as creative, beautiful, and life-affirming, and he criticizes expressions of the will to power that he sees as ugly or born of weakness. (hurting people)

At times Nietzsche seems to posit the will to power as more than just a principle that yields insight into the deep psychological motivations of human beings. For instance, in "Thus Spoke Zarathustra" he has Zarathustra say: “Wherever I found a living thing, I found there the will to power.” Here the will to power is applied to the biological realm. And in a fairly straightforward sense, one might understand a simple event such as a big fish eating a little fish as a form of the will to power; the big fish demonstrates mastery of its environment by assimilating part of the environment into itself.